.TH lazbuild 1 "9 Sep 2006" "Lazarus" "Lazarus build utility"
.SH NAME
lazbuild \- The Lazarus project and package build program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B lazbuild
.I "[options] filename..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B lazbuild
builds a Lazarus project or package. It compiles projects (.lpi) and packages
(.lpk). It checks and automatically compiles required packages.

.SH USAGE

lazbuild is a command-line tool that builds Lazarus projects and packages. It
checks recursively all dependencies and compiles needed packages first. It uses
the
.B Free Pascal compiler (fpc)
to compile.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h or --help
write the list of options.
.TP
.B \-B or --build-all
build all files of project/package. Normally the compiler only compiles the
main source and all sources with a newer date.
.TP
.B \-r or --recursive
apply build flags (-B) to dependencies too.
.TP
.B \-d or --skip-dependencies
do not compile dependencies
.TP
.B \-v or --version
show version and exit
.TP
.B \--primary-config-path=<path> or --pcp=<path>
primary config directory, where Lazarus stores its
config files. Default is $HOME/.lazarus
.TP
.B \--secondary-config-path=<path> or --scp=<path>
secondary config directory, where Lazarus searches
for config template files. Default is /etc/lazarus
.TP
.B \--operating-system=<operating-system> or --os=<operating-system>
override the project operating system. e.g. win32 or linux.
.TP
.B \--widgetset=<widgetset> or --ws=<widgetset>
override the project widgetset. e.g. gtk, gtk2, qt, win32, or carbon.
.TP
.B \--cpu=<cpu>
override the project cpu. e.g. i386, x86_64, powerpc, powerpc_64 etc.
.TP
.B \--compiler=<ppcXXX>
override the default compiler. e.g. ppc386, ppcx64, ppcppc etc.
.TP
.B \--language=
Override language. For example --language=de. For
possible values see files in the lazarus/languages directory.


.SH .lpi and .lpk files
The .lpi and .lpk files are best created and edited with the Lazarus IDE.
The files are in xml. There is no reason to edit them manually, except for
very rare cases like renaming hundreds of files.

.IP 

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP 
.BR  ppc386 (1)
.BR  ld (1)

.SH Websites
.IP
.BR  http://www.lazarus.freepascal.org

